## Some books I've read and my thoughts about them

I like to read a lot, even though I don't have time to do it as often as I'd like, so here I've compiled some a list of some books I like (or perhaps don't like), and my thoughts about them.

### Dune (Frank Herbert, 1965)
Let's start with Dune, because I've been re-listening to it lately, and I think about it a lot. I was introduced to Dune when I saw the trailer for it, but I was vaguely aware of its existence because my dad had read them a lot, and I remember him reading them. When I saw the trailer, I made a vow that I would finish reading the book before the movie came out.  

Set 20,000 years in the future, in a world where computers or any "thinking machine" is banned and humans have ventured out to all corners of the galaxy, humanity has found new ways to evolve and is now reliant on the spice *melange*. The spice allows its users extraordinary abilities, because it can bridge space and time. Thus some use it to calculate the precise math needed for spaceship maneuvering while others use it to detect lies and truths. The spice, however, is produced by one planet: Arrakis, nicknamed Dune (roll title sequence). Thus Arrakis is of vital importance. The book centers around a boy named Paul Atreides. His father, the Duke Leto Atreides, has been given control of Arrakis, by the Padishah Emperor (ruler of all the galaxy). Previously, control of Arrakis had been under the Atreides' mortal enemies, the Harkonens. The emperor and the Harkonens have conspired to give the Atreides' Dune as a way to undermine. For the emperor fears the the Duke Leto has become too powerful, while the Harkonens would like nothing more to take out their enemies. The Atreides know this, but they came to Arrakis nonetheless for two reasons. One, disobeying the emperor would cause an annoying amount of trouble, and more importantly, if they are successful in navigating the paths and corners of intrigue everpresent on Arrakis, they stand to make an immense amount of profit from sale of the spice.  

Because of its immense amount of world-building and detail, the book may seem daunting, and it very well can be. But it delivers an immensely enjoyable result. When Paul arrives on Arrakis, he is exposed to the indigenous people called the Fremen, who recognize him as Lisan Al-Ghaib (Voice of the Unknown in Arabic), essential marking him as their Messiah, who is prophesied to free them of their suffering. The book explores Paul's submersion in Fremen culture, and his role as a fighter and Messiah. Herbert draws intensively from Arabic and Islamic culture in creating his story. Sometimes it feels like the book is written in Arabic, with a bit of English thrown in for fun, but it only heightens the experience one has when reading this book. Some criticize Dune calling it orientalist and with white saviour elements, and it's easy to see why. White guy comes to desert -> natives call him prophet -> natives were waiting for his help, and couldn't have done it without his help 😀. But in my opinion, I don't think Dune reads like that at all, and calling it a white saviour novel is a bit reductionist. It definitely has those elements but Dune subverts the trope, rather than expanding on it. Throughout the novel Paul becomes one of the Fremen, rather than merely helping them out (something not seen in a traditional white saviour orientalist pieces like Lawrence of Arabia), and Fremen culture, especially their relationship with their natural world, is emphasized rather than fetishized. As an Arab, I felt like the story was far removed enough (20,000 years in the future on a distant planet), and rich enough that I didn't feel like Arab culture was being exoticized at all. And I think anyone who reads it can tell that was what Herbert was going for, as he spent months in Arab deserts cataloguing and reporting on the environmental aspects he noticed. Ultimately, Dune is a hardcore sci-fi novel that's perfect for anyone who wants a combination of old and new, science and religion, and action and deep thought. I could write (and perhaps I will) so much more about this book, because it really is amazing.

*First written 2022.06.06*